---
layout: default
---

### 报告信息

- 主题：面向时空数据建模的矩阵张量分解算法
- 时间：2024 年 7 月 12 日
- 地点：北京交通大学
- 主讲人：陈新宇（博士）

### Talk Information

- Topic: Modeling spatiotemporal data with matrix and tensor factorization approaches
- Date: July 12, 2024
- Place: Beijing Jiao Tong University, China
- Speaker: Dr. Xinyu Chen

### 摘要 (Abstract)

In urban and economic systems, large amounts of data, such as urban mobility, traffic flow, and international merchandise trade flow, are readily available for implementing downstream tasks and supporting decision-making processes. Since these data are characterized by spatiotemporal dimensions and demonstrate data patterns of the systems, it is important to reformulate the system problems with machine learning. In this talk, we introduce two scientific problems: 1) imputing missing values from partially observed traffic data, and 2) discovering spatial and temporal patterns from time-varying systems. Since these spatiotemporal data always (empirically) reveal low-rank properties and spatiotemporal correlations, we start from a sequence of low-rank matrix and tensor methods such as matrix/tensor factorization. To reinforce the model for building temporal correlations and dynamics, we integrate time series convolution and autoregression into the framework. In the modeling process, we intend to highlight the importance of temporal modeling in the low-rank matrix and tensor methods.

### 个人简介 (Bio)

陈新宇博士 (个人主页: [https://xinychen.github.io](https://xinychen.github.io))，目前在美国麻省理工学院从事博士后研究，此前在加拿大蒙特利尔大学获得博士学位，研究方向为智能交通、机器学习、数据科学、城市科学，研究兴趣包括机器学习理论与算法、时空数据建模技术、张量计算与数据挖掘。截至目前，以第一作者在智能交通领域顶刊 Transportation Research Part C: Emerging Technologies 与 IEEE Transactions on Intelligent Transportation Systems 发表学术论文 6 篇，在计算机领域顶刊 IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence (TPAMI) 与 IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering (TKDE) 发表学术论文 3 篇。根据谷歌学术数据，陈新宇博士的所有论文共计被引用超过 1100 次，其中，2 篇论文曾入选 ESI 热点论文、 2 篇论文被收录为 ESI 高被引论文。

Dr. Xinyu Chen (Homepage: [https://xinychen.github.io](https://xinychen.github.io)) is now a Postdoctoral Associate at MIT. Before joining MIT, Dr. Chen received his Ph.D. degree from the University of Montreal, Canada. Dr. Chen is currently working on several scientific fields, including intelligent transportation systems, machine learning, data science, and urban science. The specific research interests include theoretical machine learning methods, spatiotemporal data modeling techniques, and tensor computations. Until now, Dr. Chen has published 9 first-author papers in some top-tier scientific journals, including IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence (TPAMI), IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering (TKDE), Transportation Research Part C: Emerging Technologies, and IEEE Transactions on Intelligent Transportation Systems, as these publications have been cited more than 1,100 times on Google Scholar.

<br>
